index.md, before:

---
layout: index
title: 'Teaching ML @ ECML-PKDD 2021'
---

## Content

1. Table of content
{:toc}

## Important dates

* May 05, 2021: Paper submissions open
* Jun 25, 2021: Paper submissions due **Deadline extended**
* Jul 21, 2021: Paper decisions
* Aug 18, 2021: Camera ready due
* Sep 01, 2021: all papers online
* Sep 08, 2021: satellite event **virtual** 
* Sep 13, 2021: day of the workshop (paper presentations and discussion) **virtual** 

## Programme

This workshop is planned as an online event. For both events we will use [Zoom](https://zoom.com) as our online conference service. 
We will publish the conference link on this website before the event.

### Preface Satellite Event - September 8, 2021

| Time/CEST                                                                          | Title                                                                                                                  | Speaker                                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [2:00 pm](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200908T1200) | AI Campus - the learning platform for artificial intelligence                                                          | [Cornelia Gamst](https://neuland21.de/team/cornelia-gamst/)                   |
| [3:00 pm](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200908T1300) | TBA                                                                                                                    | [Sorelle Friedler](http://sorelle.friedler.net/)                              |
| [4:00 pm](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200908T1400) | Rethinking the dreaded textbook: taking inspiration from the inclusive, ethical, and active machine learning classroom | [Alicia Johnson](https://www.macalester.edu/mscs/facultystaff/aliciajohnson/) |
| [5:00 pm](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200908T1500) | Wrap up                                                                                                                |                                                                               |

#### Video Conference Details

The satellite event will be streamed on [zoom](https://zoom.us). To connect, use the following [link](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89839487704?pwd=QXp3MWc4WVNTRFdBeldhRWVBU0RwUT09). Telephone dial-ins are available [here](https://us06web.zoom.us/u/kbSgTcLx3S).

#### Cornelia Gamst, Demo of „AI Campus - the learning platform for artificial intelligence“

**Abstract:**

Everybody (well, almost) wants to learn Machine Learning, or Data Science these days. The big online learning platforms already offer a wide variety of options, differing in level, length, depth and also learning formats. But somehow in Germany there still seems to be a missing piece. "AI Campus" wants to fill that gap with specialized courses and learning nuggets for a broad target group: from in depth courses for domain experts to learning nuggets offering a basic understanding of what's behind AI and machine learning for the general public.

In this workshop, we will give a brief demo of learning formats available on AI Campus, discuss our general curriculum framework and we can take a closer look at how we do things in specific courses that are of interest to the audience of the workshop.


#### Alicia Johnson, Rethinking the dreaded textbook: taking inspiration from the inclusive, ethical, and active machine learning classroom

**Abstract:**

As machine learning educators, we’re trained to translate and
weave developing “best practices” into our classrooms. For example, we
might aim to create inclusive courses which center data ethics while
promoting active learning. Especially since these same ends aren’t always
embedded in our classroom resources (eg: textbooks), pulling this off can
require some patchwork and wizardry. In this talk, we’ll discuss Bayes
Rules! An Introduction to Bayesian Modeling with R (Johnson, Ott, &
Dogucu), our attempt at: (1) supporting educators in their implementation
of inclusive, ethical, and active learning practices; and (2) reflecting
that these goals are critical to the entire machine learning workflow, not
just the classroom; all while (3) being ourselves.


### Schedule for workshop Day September 13, 2021

| Time/CEST | Title   |
| --------- | ------- |
| [2:30](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200913T1430) - 2:45 pm | Welcome        |
| [2:45](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200913T1445) - 3:45 pm | Community connect |
| [4:00](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200913T1400) - 5:00 pm | Workshop discussions |
| [5:00](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200913T1500) - 5:30 pm | Wrap up |



## About this workshop

Machine Learning based approaches have become ubiquitous in many areas of society, industry and academia. Understanding what Machine Learning (ML) is providing and reproducing what it infers, has become an essential prerequisite for adoption. In this line of thought, course materials, introductory media and lecture series of a broad variety, depth, and quality are public availability. To this date and the best our knowledge, there is no structured approach to collect and discuss best practices in teaching Machine Learning. This workshop strives to change this. 

With our workshop, we want to start an academic discussion on best practices. We would like to help improve existing material as a community and make conceiving new material more effective. We are very happy that this idea was approved for [ECML PKDD 2021](https://2021.ecmlpkdd.org/?page_id=1705) workshop programme. Like ECML PKDD 2021, Teaching ML 2021 will be a **virtual** event.  

## Motivation

Many experts and practitioners who develop Machine Learning models or infrastructure around these models are confronted with the opportunity to teach Machine Learning at some point in their career. Traditionally, many rely on their gut feeling to design courses that are motivated by these circumstances. The methods of choice are often PowerPoint or similar technologies.

This workshop targets those who would like to know, how teachers from around the globe approach teaching Machine Learning: How deep do they dive into the matter? What mental models do they use to visualize concepts? What media is at play in teaching ML by others? 

With this workshop, we hope that all participants obtain a better feeling where they stand with their teaching and how they can improve or collaborate with others.

## Topics Covered

The main goal of this workshop is to motivate and nourish best practices at any stage of the teaching process. For this, we would like to cover a structured approach to teaching motivated by [the carpentries](https://cdh.carpentries.org/) or a variation thereof. We believe that the core concepts contained in this are helpful for any teaching practitioners. 

The central activity of the workshop will be twofold: 

1. a call-for-papers whereby teaching professionals or beginners are asked to describe their method of choice when teaching a given ML topic. We like to attract at maximum 4-page long mini-articles (excluding references and acknowledgements) that present or discuss a teaching activity related to machine learning. For more details, see below.

2. **presentations of 5-7 minute lightning talks of all accepted papers**

### Proceedings and Paper Format

All papers will be published in with [Proceedings of Machine Learning Research](http://proceedings.mlr.press/).
The papers must be written in English and formatted according to the [ICML 2021 latex template](https://github.com/teaching-ml/2021/raw/master/templatefiles/ICML2021%20Template%20--_%20Updated%20for%20TeachingML.zip).

The maximum length of papers is 4 pages (excluding references and acknowledgements) in this format. The program chairs reserve the right to reject any over-length papers without review. Papers that ‘cheat’ the page limit by, including but not limited to, using smaller than specified margins or font sizes will also be treated as over-length. Note that for example negative vspaces are also not allowed.

Additional materials (e.g. proofs, audio, images, video, data, or source code) can be provided as URLs inside the paper of your submission. The reviewers and the program committee reserve the right to judge the paper solely based on the 4 pages; looking at any additional material is at the discretion of the reviewers and is not required.

We strive to pursue a double-blind review process. All papers need to be ‘best-effort’ anonymized. We strongly encourage to also make code and data available anonymously (e.g., in an anonymous git repository or Dropbox folder). It is allowed to have a (non-anonymous) pre-print online, but it should not be cited in the submitted paper to preserve anonymity. Reviewers will be asked not to search for them.

### Paper Submission

We invite interested authors to submit their article on openreview.net [here](https://openreview.net/group?id=ecmlpkdd.org/ECMLPKDD/2021/Workshop/TeachML).

### Paper Reviews

We will conduct an open double-blinded peer-review using [openreview.net](https://openreview.net) on all contributions and select contributions based on the reviewers' feedback. Here are the important dates:

- May 5, 2021: Submission opens
- June 25, 2021: Submission Deadline **Deadline extended** (no submissions past this date) 
- July 21, 2021: Paper Confirmations

Each submitted paper will be reviewed publicly by at least two experienced machine learning instructors. 


### Reviewers

We are extremely grateful for the group of volunteers that make this event happen by providing their reviews to submitted papers:

- Claudia A. Engel (Stanford)
- Melody Su (Mount Holyoke College)
- Carola Gajek (University of Augsburg)
- Lukas Heinrich (CERN)
- Colin Sauze (Prifysgol Aberystwyth University)
- David Rousseau (National institute of nuclear and particle physics, IN2P3)
- Sebastian Starke (HZDR)
- Steve Schmerler (HZDR)
- Ludwig Bothmann (University of Munich)
- John Laudun (US Army Combined Arms Center)
- Sinead Williamson (University of Texas)
- Patrick Glauner (Deggendorf Institute of Technology)
- Jonathan Heras (Universidad de la rioja)
- Matias Valdenegro (German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence, DFKI)
- Mike Trizna (Smithsonian Institute)
- Guillaume Muller (Université Jean Monnet Saint-Etienne)
- Martin Palazzo (Universidad Tecnológica Nacional Facultad Regional Buenos Aires)
- Thiemo Leonhardt (TU Dresden)

## Questions, Concerns or Feedback

We are happy to hear from you regarding your questions, concerns or feedback. Please do so by opening an issue [here](https://github.com/teaching-ml/2021/) or [contact us](mailto:p.steinbach@hzdr.de).

Commit message:

VC details for the main workshop

index.md, after:

---
layout: index
title: 'Teaching ML @ ECML-PKDD 2021'
---

## Content

1. Table of content
{:toc}

## Important dates

* May 05, 2021: Paper submissions open
* Jun 25, 2021: Paper submissions due **Deadline extended**
* Jul 21, 2021: Paper decisions
* Aug 18, 2021: Camera ready due
* Sep 01, 2021: all papers online
* Sep 08, 2021: satellite event **virtual** 
* Sep 13, 2021: day of the workshop (paper presentations and discussion) **virtual** 

## Programme

This workshop is planned as an online event. For both events we will use [Zoom](https://zoom.com) as our online conference service. 
We will publish the conference link on this website before the event.

### Preface Satellite Event - September 8, 2021

| Time/CEST                                                                          | Title                                                                                                                  | Speaker                                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [2:00 pm](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200908T1200) | AI Campus - the learning platform for artificial intelligence                                                          | [Cornelia Gamst](https://neuland21.de/team/cornelia-gamst/)                   |
| [3:00 pm](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200908T1300) | TBA                                                                                                                    | [Sorelle Friedler](http://sorelle.friedler.net/)                              |
| [4:00 pm](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200908T1400) | Rethinking the dreaded textbook: taking inspiration from the inclusive, ethical, and active machine learning classroom | [Alicia Johnson](https://www.macalester.edu/mscs/facultystaff/aliciajohnson/) |
| [5:00 pm](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200908T1500) | Wrap up                                                                                                                |                                                                               |

#### Video Conference Details

The satellite event will be streamed on [zoom](https://zoom.us). To connect, use the following [link](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89839487704?pwd=QXp3MWc4WVNTRFdBeldhRWVBU0RwUT09). Telephone dial-ins are available [here](https://us06web.zoom.us/u/kbSgTcLx3S).

#### Cornelia Gamst, Demo of „AI Campus - the learning platform for artificial intelligence“

**Abstract:**

Everybody (well, almost) wants to learn Machine Learning, or Data Science these days. The big online learning platforms already offer a wide variety of options, differing in level, length, depth and also learning formats. But somehow in Germany there still seems to be a missing piece. "AI Campus" wants to fill that gap with specialized courses and learning nuggets for a broad target group: from in depth courses for domain experts to learning nuggets offering a basic understanding of what's behind AI and machine learning for the general public.

In this workshop, we will give a brief demo of learning formats available on AI Campus, discuss our general curriculum framework and we can take a closer look at how we do things in specific courses that are of interest to the audience of the workshop.


#### Alicia Johnson, Rethinking the dreaded textbook: taking inspiration from the inclusive, ethical, and active machine learning classroom

**Abstract:**

As machine learning educators, we’re trained to translate and
weave developing “best practices” into our classrooms. For example, we
might aim to create inclusive courses which center data ethics while
promoting active learning. Especially since these same ends aren’t always
embedded in our classroom resources (eg: textbooks), pulling this off can
require some patchwork and wizardry. In this talk, we’ll discuss Bayes
Rules! An Introduction to Bayesian Modeling with R (Johnson, Ott, &
Dogucu), our attempt at: (1) supporting educators in their implementation
of inclusive, ethical, and active learning practices; and (2) reflecting
that these goals are critical to the entire machine learning workflow, not
just the classroom; all while (3) being ourselves.


### Schedule for workshop Day September 13, 2021

| Time/CEST | Title   |
| --------- | ------- |
| [2:30](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200913T1430) - 2:45 pm | Welcome        |
| [2:45](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200913T1445) - 3:45 pm | Community connect |
| [4:00](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200913T1400) - 5:00 pm | Workshop discussions |
| [5:00](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200913T1500) - 5:30 pm | Wrap up |


#### Video Conference Details

The satellite event will be streamed on [zoom](https://zoom.us). To connect, use the following [link](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89839487704?pwd=QXp3MWc4WVNTRFdBeldhRWVBU0RwUT09). Telephone dial-ins are available [here](https://us06web.zoom.us/u/kbSgTcLx3S).

## About this workshop

Machine Learning based approaches have become ubiquitous in many areas of society, industry and academia. Understanding what Machine Learning (ML) is providing and reproducing what it infers, has become an essential prerequisite for adoption. In this line of thought, course materials, introductory media and lecture series of a broad variety, depth, and quality are public availability. To this date and the best our knowledge, there is no structured approach to collect and discuss best practices in teaching Machine Learning. This workshop strives to change this. 

With our workshop, we want to start an academic discussion on best practices. We would like to help improve existing material as a community and make conceiving new material more effective. We are very happy that this idea was approved for [ECML PKDD 2021](https://2021.ecmlpkdd.org/?page_id=1705) workshop programme. Like ECML PKDD 2021, Teaching ML 2021 will be a **virtual** event.  

## Motivation

Many experts and practitioners who develop Machine Learning models or infrastructure around these models are confronted with the opportunity to teach Machine Learning at some point in their career. Traditionally, many rely on their gut feeling to design courses that are motivated by these circumstances. The methods of choice are often PowerPoint or similar technologies.

This workshop targets those who would like to know, how teachers from around the globe approach teaching Machine Learning: How deep do they dive into the matter? What mental models do they use to visualize concepts? What media is at play in teaching ML by others? 

With this workshop, we hope that all participants obtain a better feeling where they stand with their teaching and how they can improve or collaborate with others.

## Topics Covered

The main goal of this workshop is to motivate and nourish best practices at any stage of the teaching process. For this, we would like to cover a structured approach to teaching motivated by [the carpentries](https://cdh.carpentries.org/) or a variation thereof. We believe that the core concepts contained in this are helpful for any teaching practitioners. 

The central activity of the workshop will be twofold: 

1. a call-for-papers whereby teaching professionals or beginners are asked to describe their method of choice when teaching a given ML topic. We like to attract at maximum 4-page long mini-articles (excluding references and acknowledgements) that present or discuss a teaching activity related to machine learning. For more details, see below.

2. **presentations of 5-7 minute lightning talks of all accepted papers**

### Proceedings and Paper Format

All papers will be published in with [Proceedings of Machine Learning Research](http://proceedings.mlr.press/).
The papers must be written in English and formatted according to the [ICML 2021 latex template](https://github.com/teaching-ml/2021/raw/master/templatefiles/ICML2021%20Template%20--_%20Updated%20for%20TeachingML.zip).

The maximum length of papers is 4 pages (excluding references and acknowledgements) in this format. The program chairs reserve the right to reject any over-length papers without review. Papers that ‘cheat’ the page limit by, including but not limited to, using smaller than specified margins or font sizes will also be treated as over-length. Note that for example negative vspaces are also not allowed.

Additional materials (e.g. proofs, audio, images, video, data, or source code) can be provided as URLs inside the paper of your submission. The reviewers and the program committee reserve the right to judge the paper solely based on the 4 pages; looking at any additional material is at the discretion of the reviewers and is not required.

We strive to pursue a double-blind review process. All papers need to be ‘best-effort’ anonymized. We strongly encourage to also make code and data available anonymously (e.g., in an anonymous git repository or Dropbox folder). It is allowed to have a (non-anonymous) pre-print online, but it should not be cited in the submitted paper to preserve anonymity. Reviewers will be asked not to search for them.

### Paper Submission

We invite interested authors to submit their article on openreview.net [here](https://openreview.net/group?id=ecmlpkdd.org/ECMLPKDD/2021/Workshop/TeachML).

### Paper Reviews

We will conduct an open double-blinded peer-review using [openreview.net](https://openreview.net) on all contributions and select contributions based on the reviewers' feedback. Here are the important dates:

- May 5, 2021: Submission opens
- June 25, 2021: Submission Deadline **Deadline extended** (no submissions past this date) 
- July 21, 2021: Paper Confirmations

Each submitted paper will be reviewed publicly by at least two experienced machine learning instructors. 


### Reviewers

We are extremely grateful for the group of volunteers that make this event happen by providing their reviews to submitted papers:

- Claudia A. Engel (Stanford)
- Melody Su (Mount Holyoke College)
- Carola Gajek (University of Augsburg)
- Lukas Heinrich (CERN)
- Colin Sauze (Prifysgol Aberystwyth University)
- David Rousseau (National institute of nuclear and particle physics, IN2P3)
- Sebastian Starke (HZDR)
- Steve Schmerler (HZDR)
- Ludwig Bothmann (University of Munich)
- John Laudun (US Army Combined Arms Center)
- Sinead Williamson (University of Texas)
- Patrick Glauner (Deggendorf Institute of Technology)
- Jonathan Heras (Universidad de la rioja)
- Matias Valdenegro (German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence, DFKI)
- Mike Trizna (Smithsonian Institute)
- Guillaume Muller (Université Jean Monnet Saint-Etienne)
- Martin Palazzo (Universidad Tecnológica Nacional Facultad Regional Buenos Aires)
- Thiemo Leonhardt (TU Dresden)

## Questions, Concerns or Feedback

We are happy to hear from you regarding your questions, concerns or feedback. Please do so by opening an issue [here](https://github.com/teaching-ml/2021/) or [contact us](mailto:p.steinbach@hzdr.de).
